# Arbitrage with Rain OrderBook - An Overview. 

## Introduction
This article aims to explain how the arbitrage mechanism works with Rain OrderBook, with external fillers trading with external liquidity.
The article also gives a brief overview of the Rain OrderBook smart contract, anatomy of orders, and a brief description of strategies in Rainlang. The article aims to explain these concepts with examples in simple vernacular so that even beginners can follow.
For detailed description about the ecosystem checkout the Rain Protocol documentation : <https://docs.rainprotocol.xyz/>

## Prerequisites
- Reader is expected to have basic understanding of blockchain, smart contracts, on-chain liquidity, decentralized exchanges and defi.
- Rainlang : A domain specific language that is interpreted onchain. For more details checkout the Rain Protocol documentation : <https://docs.rainprotocol.xyz/>
## Rain OrderBook
The Rain Orderbook is an onchain orderbook smart contract that enables users to deploy complex, onchain strategies for managing token trades.Unlike traditional order books, Rain Orderbook orders contain dynamic algorithms that express how tokens should move between vaults.

### Vaults
Vaults in OrderBook are virtual accounts within the OrderBook which are then referenced by the OrderBook strategies. Every vault has an associated `id` which is just a number ranging from `0` to `1.15792089237320006134268624010 × 10^77`. Users deposit/withdraw tokens to and from these vaults, which are uniquely identified per-user, per token, per vault id.
```sh
mapping(address owner => mapping(address token => mapping(uint256 vaultId => uint256 balance)))
```
Above is the solidity mapping representing the vaults in OrderBook

Example : 
Let say a user has a wallet with public key `0x53AB61eE41FA202227Eb4e7B176208FC626DC8A9` that he uses to interact with the on chain OrderBook.
The user want to deposit USDT token : `0xdAC17F958D2ee523a2206206994597C13D831ec7` to the vault.
Vault id kept by the user : `10`.
Hence the vault corresponding to the user will be uniquely identified by the key
```sh
[0x53AB61eE41FA202227Eb4e7B176208FC626DC8A9][0xdAC17F958D2ee523a2206206994597C13D831ec7][10] = 0
```
As you gather from above different tokens can have the same vault id, as well as same tokens can have different vault ids.
Example : Following are two different unique vaults : 
```sh
// USDT vault which is different from the one above as the vault id is different 
[0x53AB61eE41FA202227Eb4e7B176208FC626DC8A9][0xdAC17F958D2ee523a2206206994597C13D831ec7][11] = 0 

// USDC vault with same vault id as USDT vault
[0x53AB61eE41FA202227Eb4e7B176208FC626DC8A9][0xA0b86991c6218b36c1d19D4a2e9Eb0cE3606eB48][11] = 0
```  
In the first example above, although the owner and the token address are same, the vault id is different i.e `11` and not `10`, in the second example even though the vault id and owner is same, the token address is different. Hence all the above are three different unique vaults. Which means that the amount deposited to or withdrawn from one vault, won't affect the balance of the other. 

All the above vaults have `0` vault balance.You can deposit to and withdraw from vaults by calling the `deposit` and `withdraw` functions on the OrderBook smart contract, which will add and substract the corresponding amount to the vault balance.

### Strategies

Strategies or orders(used interchangebly) are written using Rainlang, a domain specific language which is interpreted onchain. Every strategy/order for the OrderBook has following components associated with it : 
- A rainlang expression that evaluates to maximum amount and ratio. 
- Input Vaults Array: List of token vaults that the order is asking for.
- Output Vaults Array: List of token vaults that the order is offering. 

Rainlang Expression : 
Every rainlang expression associated with the order evaluates to maximum amount and a price ratio for a trade. The syntax for writing expressions in rainlang is beyond the scope of this artcile, for more details about rainlang please check the rain protocol documentation. 
Assuming you have a basic understanding of rainlang lets follow through an example.


Let assume that an user has some USDT and he wants to exchange it for some USDC at 1% profit. Which means that if user has 100 USDT deposited in a token vault, he is looking for 101 USDC in return. 

For this order, the user would need to have one USDT vault and one USDC vault, vault ids of the vaults can be same or different. Lets assume that both vaults have same vault id `112233`(vault id can be any number) and user deposits `100` USDT in the USDT vault. So within the OrderBook smart contract our vaults would look like : 
```sh
[0x53AB61eE41FA202227Eb4e7B176208FC626DC8A9][0xdAC17F958D2ee523a2206206994597C13D831ec7][112233] = 100000000 
[0x53AB61eE41FA202227Eb4e7B176208FC626DC8A9][0xA0b86991c6218b36c1d19D4a2e9Eb0cE3606eB48][112233] = 0 

```
The USDT vault has a balance of `100000000` i.e 100 USDT. 

For our order USDC will be the input vault(vault of the token we want) and USDT will be the output vault(vault of the token we are offering).

As stated before every rainlang expression associated with an order must evaluate to ratio and max-amount on source indexed as 0. The rain OrderBook order expression has two sources so the simpliest expression for this is : 
```
max-amount: 100000000,
ratio: 1010000000000000000;
:;
```
Please refer to rainlang docs for what the `sources` are within expressions and how each source is separated by a `;`. Here there are two sources, indexed as source[0] and source[1], the second one is empty.

The `max-amount` for an order is the maximum amount traded per-order, and the ratio here is the ratio of output token to input token. More about this further. For now lets simplify the expression. `100000000` can be written as `100e6` or `1e8` in rainlang and `1010000000000000000` can be written as `101e16`. So finally our expression is : 
```
max-amount: 100e6,
ratio: 101e16;
:;
``` 
For orderbook expressions associated with orders, ratio is denomiated as 18 decimal fixed point. This is because solidity does not support float type data, which means if ratio set to `1000000000000000000` or `1e18`, then the ratio of output token(token which you are offering) to input token(token which you receive) would be `1:1`. 
- If ratio is `2e18` then it would be `1:2`.
- If ratio is `2500000000000000000` or `25e17` then it would be `1:2.5`.

For our case we wanted the ratio to be 1:1.1, hence the ratio is `1010000000000000000` or `101e16`. 

To summarize what our order looks like : 
- Input Vaults Array : `[USDC vault]`
- Output Vaults Array : `[USDT vault]`
- Order expression: Same as the final expression written above.

Note: An order can have multiple input token vaults and multiple token outputs vaults associated with it. Here for simplicity we have limited both to only one each. 

To add an order to OrderBook user can call the `addOrder` function from the OrderBook smart contract.As of yet there is no generic web based GUI front end for the Rain Orderbook . Active users of the orderbook currently use scripts or bespoke front ends developed for a specific projects.

Once an order is placed within OrderBook it is live perpetually until it is removed. User can remove an order by calling `removeOrder` function on the smart contract.  

The current expression associated with the order is a simple, most basic expression. Users can write much more complex, customized expressions using words that are offered by the rainlang. Refer docs for these. 

Now that the user has added an order to the OrderBook, lets have a look at the arbitrage mechamism used to execute this Order.

## Sourcing Arbitrage Opportunities from External Liquidity.
  
- The OrderBook smart contract implements [`ERC-3156`](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-3156) which provides standard interfaces and processes for single-asset flash loans. Several features found in it's reference implementation are included within the Rain OrderBook. 
- The OrderBook smart contract implements the `IERC3156FlashLender` interface, so that it can offer the tokens deposit within the OrderBook as a flash loan to any contract implementing `IERC3156FlashBorrower` interface. The arbitrage bot (arb-bot) aggregates and constantly monitors prices  from external sources as well as asking prices of the orders placed withing the order book. Once an opportunity is sourced, the arb-bot submits the transaction to the borrower contract, the borrower contract then acquires the flash loan from the OrderBook contract, executes the trade with the external liquidity pool and returns the traded amount back to the OrderBook. If any profit was generated after the order was fulfilled, the arb-bot wallet receives it as a reward for sourcing and placing the arb opportunity. 


